[MUSIC]
>> Metropolis-Hastings is an algorithm
that allows us to sample from
a generic probability distribution,
which we'll call our target distribution,
even if we don't know
the normalizing constant.
To do this, we construct and
sample from a Markov chain whose
stationary distribution is the target
distribution that we're looking for.
It consists of picking
an arbitrary starting value and
then iteratively accepting or
rejecting candidate samples
drawn from another distribution,
one that is easy to sample.
Let's say we want to produce
samples from a target distribution.
We're going to call it p of theta.
But we only know it up to a normalizing
constant or up to proportionality.
What we have is g of theta.
So we don't know
the normalizing constant because
perhaps this is difficult to integrate.
So we only have g of theta to work with.
The Metropolis Hastings Algorithm
will proceed as follows.
The first step is to select
an initial value for theta.
We're going to call it theta-naught.
The next step is for
a large number of iterations,
so for i from 1 up to some large number m,
we're going to repeat the following.
The first thing we're going
to do is draw a candidate.
We'll call that theta-star
as our candidate.
And we're going to draw this
from a proposal distribution.
We're going to call the proposal
distribution q of theta-star,
given the previous
iteration's value of theta.
We'll take more about
this q distribution soon.
The next step is to compute
the following ratio.
We're going to call this alpha.
It is this g function evaluated at
the candidate divided by the distribution,
or
the density here of q, evaluated at the
candidate given the previous iteration.
And all of this will be divided by
g evaluated at the old iteration.
That divided by q,
evaluated at the old iteration.
Given the candidate value.
If we rearrange this,
it'll be g of the candidate times
q of the previous value
given the candidate
divided by g at the previous value.
And q evaluated at the candidate,
given the previous value.
The next step, once we've calculated
alpha, is to check alpha.
If it's greater than or equal to 1,
then we're going to accept the candidate
So we're going to accept
the candidate theta-star, and
set Our current iteration of theta.
So, that'll be i.
Will be that candidate value.
If alpha is between zero and 1,
Then what we're going to
do is accept The candidate.
And set Theta i
equal to the candidate
with probability alpha.
Then, the other possibility is to reject
the candidate.
And set The current
iteration of i equal to
the previous iteration of i.
And we do this with
probability 1minus alpha.
These steps, b and c,
act as a correction since the proposal
distribution q is not
the target distribution p.
At each step in the chain,
we draw a candidate and
decide whether to move the chain there or
to remain where we are.
If the proposed move to
the candidate is advantageous,
meaning if alpha is greater than 1,
we will move there for sure.
If it is not advantageous,
we might still move there,
but only with probability alpha.
Since our decision to move to the
candidate only depends on where the chain
currently is, this is a Markov chain.
One careful choice we must make is with
the candidate generating distribution q.
It may or may not depend on the previous
iteration's value of theta.
One example where it doesn't
depend on the previous value
would be if q of theta-star is
always the same distribution.
If we take this option,
q of theta should be similar to
p of theta, to approximate it.
Another popular option, one that does
depend on the previous iteration,
is called random walk Metropolis-Hastings.
Here, the proposal distribution is
centered on the previous iteration.
For instance, it might be a normal
distribution where the mean
is our previous iteration theta i minus 1.
Because the normal distribution
is symmetric around its mean,
this example comes with
another really nice advantage.
This q evaluated at the candidate
given the mean here,
the density value for this q will
be equal to this density value of
the old value where
the mean is the candidate.
This causes these two qs to cancel
out when we calculate alpha.
So, in random walk Metropolis-Hastings,
where the candidate is drawn from a normal
distribution where the mean is
the previous iteration's value and
we use a constant variance in that normal
distribution, the acceptance ratio,
alpha, will be really easy.
It'll just be g at the evaluated at
the candidate divided by g evaluated
at the previous iteration.
Clearly, not all candidate
draws are accepted.
So, our Markov chain sometimes stays where
it is, possibly for many iterations.
How often you want the chain
to accept candidates
depends on the type of algorithm you use.
If you approximate p with q and
always draw candidates
from that distribution, accepting
candidates often is a good thing.
It means that q is approximating p well.
However, you still may want to have
q have a larger variance than p,
and see some rejection of
candidates to be as an assurance
that q is covering the space well.
As we'll see in coming examples,
a high acceptance rate for
random walk Metropolis-Hastings
samplers is not a good thing.
If the random walk is taking too small of
steps, it will accept candidates often,
but will take a very long time to fully
explore the posterior distribution.
If the random walk is taking too large of
steps, many of its proposals will have
low probability and
the acceptance rate will be low.
That will cause us to
waste many of the draws.
Ideally, a random walk sampler should
accept somewhere between 23 and
50% of the candidates proposed.
In the next segment we're going
to demonstrate this algorithm
in the discrete case, where we can show
mathematically that the Markov chain
converges to the target distribution.
In the following segment after that we
will demonstrate coding a random walk
Metropolis-Hastings algorithm in R to
solve one of the problems from the end
of lesson two.
[MUSIC]